[MUSIC]
>> Piazza's an online question-and-answer
platform that I built
out of my own inspiration, based on my
experiences from my undergrad.
So, I did my undergrad when a very few
women in computer science in India.
Top engineering school, IIT.
And I had actually studied in an all-girls
high school till college, did not
know how to speak to boys, was told,
never allowed to speak to boys.
So when I went to college,
I didn't know how
to speak to boys, and all my
classmates were boys.
Studied by myself, felt very isolated.
And really felt a frustration
at doing assignments by myself
and trying to study for exams
by myself.
And I came to America to do my
masters in computer science at
Maryland College Park.
Came out to Bay Area, California,
worked as a software
engineer at Oracle, at Facebook,
at Cosmix. And when I
went to Stanford Business School
for my MBA, I realized today
with technology, actually laptops
and high-speed Internet, everywhere,
many students end up sitting by
themselves in their dorm rooms.
And that feeling of isolation is actually
pretty common among many
young students today.
So really, Piazza's meant to simulate the
sort of real face-to-face discussion that
I witnessed in my undergrad, but could not
partake in, because too shy.
>> Did you start working on it when you
were working on your master's degree?
>> My MBA, yes.
I you know, it, midway through my first
year, I took an entrepreneurship
class at Stanford.
And the one thing that entrepreneurs here
in Silicon Valley that who came to speak
in our class, the one thing they said
is think about an idea you're
passionate about.
And for me that idea was how can
I help students,
particularly women studying kind of
science and engineering subjects,
feel less isolated.
So that summer between first and
second year of business school
I moved in with my brother
and his family,
worked out of their garage,
built the first prototype of Piazza.
I had not done any web development
until then.
So I picked up a book on Ruby on Rails.
Had never written a line of HTML or CSS,
because all
I knew was kind of serve, server
technology, C, C++.
I knew how to use GDB, and so I picked up
a book on Rails, and learnt it all
and built a site
in ten days, and launched it to one class
that fall of 2009.
That grew to three classes in
January of 2010, and about
ten classes at Stanford in 2010 Fall.
That suddenly grew to 65 classes
in Spring of 2011,
and many of the professors,
I did not even know.
So that was indicating to me that, you
know, something was working.
And students were liking it, and
professors were liking it.
So suddenly I contacted professors at
Berkeley, and MIT,
and Princeton, and Harvard,
and within a month, we had over
20,000 students at these
five schools using Piazza.
>> And were you still sort of
doing this with you as the
main developer, with 20,000 accounts
[LAUGH] and you as the main developer?
And like were you using a credit card to
paying for a server or two?
>> It's just, it's barely maybe $50 to
$100 a month to host or not even
so I did find one developer who
had a daytime job.
to pay his bills and, you know, his
family's bills, and he had
some server space, so we just hosted on
whatever server space he had.
And it was at this point that we went
ahead and raised a
seed round of, you know, a little over a
million dollars with Sequoia Capitol.
>> Do you kind of have any philosophy of
the right way to
approach being an entrepreneur, and what
sort of what, what's your sort of
>> Yeah, I definitely lean towards
the slow.
I truly believe in creating value first,
not getting caught up in numbers,
In fact, February of 2010 it turned out
that the founder
of TechCrunch was seated next to me
on a plane, and when he
did ask me, you know, I'd love to
write an article about you,
my first kind of knee-jerk
reaction was no, because I
knew that would bring lots of
people to want to use Piazza.
Piazza was very, very
in its nascent stages of product
development, you know.
And it was a good call, I think,
because that whole year of 2010
I didn't care about numbers, I didn't care
about how many students or how
many professors.
All I cared about was I had a
hand full of professors
and students that I could sit with and
learn and watch and observe.
Today I believe that I have
very deep empathy.
And, you know I think it's really
important to build a product
that adds value, that comes from
often just staying very small,
because you can isolate the
types of users you want
whose use cases matches the sort of
use cases you built a product for.
>> You became a mom in the middle
of that whole story.
>> Mmm hmm
>> Talk a little bit about
about how that all works
>>Sure
>> And came together.
>> Yeah, so about five months ago
I had a baby son, Arjun, and
I'm very fortunate that I live with my
husband's parents, we all
live together and they,
you know his parents understand
that they really,
I need their support to be able to run
a company while being a mother. And both
are very important, I want to be a mother,
I want to raise children and bring them,
you know, just want to raise them.
At the same time.
I really believe in the company
that I've built and
the impact it's making on students
and teachers and continue to,
continue to do what I have been doing.
So with their support, I would say
it's been actually pretty easy.
One thing I really like to do is actually
be in another place, by myself,
so whether that's working out, or
whether that's going on a long walk,
that allows me to pull myself away from
the weeds either for Piazza or for my son.
There's a dish that's the Stanford dish,
right behind Stanford.
I hear, I hear Steve Jobs used to go there
and a couple other great
people who I derive a lot of inspiration
from, that they go there a lot.
So I like to walk there
a few times a week.
I found that that very first
summer in 2009 when I had
to build a prototype and find the first
few professors to use Piazza.
I remember I used to walk the dish
five times a week, and I would
only work four to six hours,
or maybe eight hours, but it
was never, and
I had a successful product by
the end of the summer.
And I had a class using Piazza and
I know the dish, walking the dish,
brought me focus and that allowed to
be very productive with my time
[MUSIC]